# P1: User Research

## Project Idea

The primary focus of this web-based application is to provide prospective restaurant customers the seat availability and wait times for restaurants of their choice. The customers can view all available tables, as well as wait times for such tables, based on restaurant type, table type (e.g. patio, bar, etc.), number of patrons, and other filters. They also have the option to submit a reservation for a particular table if need be.

On the restaurant side, the host stand manages all of its seating and reservations through the interface that illustrates the floor plan of the restaurant complete with every table and their respective number of seats. As the restaurant interacts with the app during service, the app will continuously draw all of the relevant data needed to perform wait time calculations and statistics which is displayed to the customers.

## Stakeholders and Users

_Identify stakeholders and users. Figure out who is impacted (in one way or another) by this system -- these are stakeholders. Note that stakeholders and users overlap, but are not always the same. For example, the primary users of self-checkout at a grocery store are customers, but cashiers still make use of the system, and the owner of a grocery store (who is likely paying for its installation) is someone who cares about the system, too. Create a list of these stakeholders, and describe them (particularly the users) in terms of: how much training/experience they might have, their background knowledge, etc._

## User Research Methods

_Conduct two user research methods. Select two user research methods from the list below in such a way that they complement one another. Justify your choice of each of these research methods in terms of why they are appropriate for your context. Conduct the methods with potential users and/or stakeholders. Make notes about your experience conducting these methods: what are your users' problems, what is their context of use, what would they like to do, etc.? Consider issues of what the use context will be (e.g. typical situations). Summarize your method, and your findings from each of these methods._

### User Research Method 1: ...


### User Research Method 2: ...


### Reflections on User Research Results

_Reflect on your use of the methods -- what went well, what went poorly, and what would you do differently_

## Task Descriptions

_Provide 6-8 task descriptions of how you expect the system to be used_