# P3: Hi-fi Prototypes and Heuristic Evaluation
Included in this report is our heuristic evaluation of our hi-fi prototype.

**NOTE:** To download the customer-facing prototype, please follow this URL to download the Axure project file: https://1drv.ms/u/s!An279VoIadgLhQjuJpcLgR2Oar9w
**NOTE:** To access the restaurant-facing prototype, please follow this URL to download the Axure project file: https://1drv.ms/u/s!An279VoIadgLhQtaVIyTlcow8YD3

## Design Heuristic 1: Visibility of System Status
Seeing that we are still in the prototyping phase, most of the data that users interact with has been hard-coded into the system, 
meaning that we are only testing with a small set of data. With larger datasets; however, calculations and search queries would 
inevitably take longer to execute. As it stands right now, the system possesses zero logic behind informing the user that a 
search query (or calculation) is being performed (I.e. there is no loading bar with a message stating that a search is being made). 
The absence of a loading indicator can very likely lead to users believing that the system may be frozen or stuck in a certain 
state, which clashes with the guidelines illustrated by this design heuristic. 

Very much like the design issue stated above, a similar flaw can be found in the "check-in" tracking page, where the system 
displays the time left until a user's table is available in conjunction with a complementing loading bar. The prototype does not 
actually implement the logic behind counting down the minutes until the table is ready nor does the loading bar; therefore, 
leaving users in a similar state described previously. 

In the restaurant layout view, a table can be reserved but it does not display the person who reserved it in any meaningful way. 
Although this may not be a "design issue" because it is simply functionality that has not been implemented yet, it is definitely 
something that should be implemented in the next iteration of the design cycle.

## Design Heuristic 2: Match Between System & Real World
In the competitive restaurant market, many restaurant owners and managers want to stand out among the rest. Creating unique 
atmospheres, decorating for a specific theme or catering to specific crowds are possible techniques to give restaurants a 
competitive edge. However, SeatSeeker does not have sufficient customization options for restaurants to implement such techniques. 
Every restaurant has the same template in the search menu, which removes all aspects of individuality. Another issue stems from 
the fact that all restaurants are viewed online through pictures and descriptions. Ultimately, the experience of physically 
walking into a restaurant to "feel" the atmosphere and vibe will be different than simply viewing pictures and descriptions online. 
The layout view of the restaurant side of the app does not provide the tools necessary to emulate the aesthetic of a real-world 
layout with only the ability to add tables implemented. 

## Design Heuristic 3: User Control & Freedom
Users should ideally have full control over all available filtering within the system. The current prototype allows users to filter 
the resulting restaurant list by a price preference, but the use of radio buttons for such a task inhibits users from either 
deselecting the price preference filter as a whole, or from selecting a range of price preferences. Such an inhibitor should not 
exist in an ideal filtering scenario. 

## Design Heuristic 4: Consistency & Standards
In most modern log in pages, pressing enter will automatically log in. However, pressing enter in the log in window of SeatSeeker 
does nothing. The user must click on the log in button to actually log in. Another issue is with the modal windows. It is expected 
for modal windows to close if the user clicks outside the window, but in SeatSeeker, the modal will only close if the "x" on the 
top right corner is clicked. This leads to minor inconveniences. Other aspects, such as going to the home page upon clicking the 
SeatSeeker logo, are implemented. 

## Design Heuristic 5: Error Prevention
In both the customer and restaurant UI, the signup window does not come with email format validation and confirm password 
validation. The user will only know that their email/confirm password is invalid after clicking the signup button. This wastes 
time for the user because errors such as these can be easily prevented by telling the user immediately.

## Design Heuristic 6: Recognition Rather Than Recall
The waitlist implemented on the restaurant side is useful for knowing who reserved a table and when, however it relies on recall 
rather than recognition. For example, if John Smith reserved a window seat for 5 people there is no way to directly reserve it 
for this customer via the wait list UI. A good way to fix this would be to implement an algorithm that finds the closest matching 
table that is available and match the customer to that table with the click of a button located next to a waitlist entry. Since 
the table in the that is reserved does not display in any meaningful way in the layout view who reserved it, the task of recalling 
this info would be left to the user of the app, which would go against its intended purpose. It is therefore an absolute must to 
implement reservation information in the layout view as well as waitlist view in further iterations.

## Design Heuristic 7: Flexibility & Efficiency of Use
In our current implementation of customer UI, there is no option to search for a restaurant. This becomes an issue for people that 
frequently visit the same restaurant location because they are forced to put in their specifications and try to find said 
restaurant every time they want to view or reserve a seat. Implementing this functionality, potentially with a keyword search, 
would alleviate this problem. As mentioned above, the workflow for reserving a seat for a customer on the waitlist is not very 
efficient since accepting a reservation is not done automatically but done manually by locking a table. Also, once a table is 
created it is immutable, meaning the name and the number of seats cannot be changed. The user would have to delete a table and 
recreate it, which is highly inefficient. In further implementations being able to customize these settings would be a must have 
feature.

## Design Heuristic 8: Aesthetics & Minimalist Design
The layout menu for the restaurant view does not in its current state encompass all types of restaurant layouts because there are 
not enough options available for making an accurate representation of each restaurant. An example of where this is mainly a 
problem is when representations of multi-level restaurants or the finer details that may be present such as walls or partitions 
must be shown on the layout. Further implementations must have more variety in place able objects for the aesthetic to be improved.  

## Design Heuristic 9: Help Users Recognize, Diagnose, and Recover from errors
Upon a search query of zero results, users should be informed of such a case so that they can react appropriately by navigating 
back to the search input fields to perform another search. The lack of a guidance message may leave the inexperienced user in the 
unknown by potentially making them believe that the system may be frozen. A simple message should suffice in mitigating such an 
issue.

## Design Heuristic 10: Help & Documentation
Currently, there is no help option or documentation for the customer facing UI. The interface may seem relatively simple for us to 
use, but some users may be confused and will need further explanation on how to operate the application. A simple FAQ page 
implemented somewhere on the SeetSeeker home page would be a potential solution. However, we hope that the interface is intuitive 
enough to use regardless.